.clinerules/02-testing-strategy.md, before:

## Testing Workflow
- Run the full tests suite `pnpm test`
- Record all faling test files
- Fix tests in each file in isolation
- once all tests for a given file are passing, record any lessons learnt in the memory bank and commit
- once all tests are passing, run a build `pnpm build`
- fix any buuild issues
- once the project is building and all tests pass save any lessons learnt to the memory bank and commit

## Handling ESLint `no-unsafe-*` Rules in Test Files

When working with complex mocks, particularly for hooks or external modules (e.g., in Vitest), ESLint's type-aware `no-unsafe-assignment`, `no-unsafe-member-access`, and `no-unsafe-call` rules may sometimes flag code that is functionally correct and type-safe at runtime but difficult for static analysis to fully verify within the mock's context.

**Strategy:**

1.  **Prioritize Type Safety:** Always strive to make mocks as type-safe as possible. Use specific types for mock function parameters and return values.
2.  **Verify Functionality:** Ensure that unit tests for the component pass comprehensively, covering all relevant states and interactions related to the mocked functionality.
3.  **Confirm Build Success:** Ensure the project builds successfully (`pnpm build`), as the TypeScript compiler is the ultimate arbiter of type correctness.
4.  **Judicious Disabling:** If, after the above steps, persistent "unsafe" ESLint warnings remain in a test file due to the intricacies of the mock setup, it may be acceptable to use file-level ESLint disable comments for these specific rules (e.g., placed at the top of the `.test.tsx` file):
    ```typescript
    /* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-unsafe-assignment */
    /* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-unsafe-member-access */
    /* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-unsafe-call */
    ```
5.  **Scope:** This approach should be limited to test files and used only when the warnings are deemed to be false positives or overly cautious for a well-tested, functionally correct mock. The main application codebase should maintain stricter adherence to these ESLint rules.
6.  **Documentation:** If such disables are used, it's good practice to briefly comment why if the reason isn't immediately obvious from the mock's complexity.

## E2E Testing Considerations for Playwright, XState, and Async Operations

- **`webServer` Configuration (Playwright & Vite):**
    - Ensure `playwright.config.ts` `baseURL` and `webServer.url` exactly match the protocol (HTTP/HTTPS) and port your Vite dev server uses. Mismatches are a common cause of `webServer` timeouts.
    - To reliably use HTTP for E2E tests when Vite is configured for HTTPS:
        1. Conditionally disable HTTPS in `vite.config.ts` based on an environment variable (e.g., `E2E_TESTING=true`).
           ```typescript
           // vite.config.ts
           export default defineConfig(({ mode }) => {
             const isE2ETesting = process.env.E2E_TESTING === 'true';
             return {
               server: { https: isE2ETesting ? false : { /* your certs */ } },
             };
           });
           ```
        2. Set this variable in `playwright.config.ts`'s `webServer.command` using `cross-env`:
           ```typescript
           // playwright.config.ts
           webServer: {
             command: 'cross-env E2E_TESTING=true pnpm dev --port 5176 --host',
             url: 'http://localhost:5176', // Match protocol and port
             reuseExistingServer: false,
           },
           ```
    - Always run `pnpm exec playwright install` after Playwright updates or for initial setup.

- **Stabilizing Async UI Tests:**
    - Use `await page.goto('/')` in tests to respect `playwright.config.ts` `baseURL`.
    - Provide generous timeouts for assertions on elements that appear after async operations or XState initializations (e.g., `await expect(locator).toBeVisible({ timeout: 20000 })`).
    - **Testing Loading States:**
        - For brief XState "loading" or "submitting" states, consider E2E-specific artificial delays *within invoked actors* (before the main async call) to ensure the state is observable.
          ```typescript
          // myActor.ts
          if (process.env.E2E_TESTING === 'true') {
            await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 500)); // Delay
          }
          // ... main async logic ...
          ```
        - Use data attributes (e.g., `data-submitting="true"`) driven by loading states for more robust assertions than relying solely on visual cues or `toBeDisabled` if timing is critical.
          ```typescript
          // MyComponent.tsx
          // <form data-submitting={isLoading ? 'true' : 'false'} ...>

          // MyComponent.e2e.ts
          // await expect(formLocator).toHaveAttribute('data-submitting', 'true');
          ```

- **Debugging XState in E2E:**
    - Add `console.log` in XState machine actions, `onDone`, `onError` to trace execution.
    - Capture browser console logs in Playwright tests to view these machine logs:
      ```typescript
      // *.e2e.ts
      test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
        page.on('console', msg => {
          if (['log', 'error', 'warn'].includes(msg.type())) {
            console.log(`BROWSER CONSOLE (${msg.type().toUpperCase()}): ${msg.text()}`);
          }
        });
        // ...
      });
      ```
- **Firebase in E2E:**
    - Be aware that Firebase SDK calls might throw `undefined` errors or errors without a `.message` in E2E. Ensure machine error handling is robust.
    - Use unique emails (e.g., `testuser_${Date.now()}@example.com`) for registration tests to ensure idempotency.
- **General E2E Practices:**
    - Use correct selectors (e.g., `getByRole('link')` for `<a>` tags).
    - Use `test.describe.skip()` or `test.skip()` to temporarily exclude non-critical or flaky tests.
    - Add clear headings (`<h1>`, `<h2>`) to pages/views for stable locators in `beforeEach` hooks to confirm navigation.
    - **Playwright Reporter:** To prevent the HTML report from auto-opening and allow the test runner to exit cleanly, set `reporter: [['html', { open: 'never' }]]` in `playwright.config.ts`.

- **Mocking External Services (e.g., Firebase Auth):**
    - Use `page.route()` to intercept and mock network calls made by SDKs. This is crucial for deterministic testing of success and specific error paths.
    - Define `page.route()` mocks *inside* individual `test()` blocks to ensure they are correctly scoped.
    - When a mock is for a specific input (e.g., a particular email), the route handler should check the request payload and use `await route.continue()` for non-matching requests to avoid interfering with other tests.
    - Be aware that SDKs might make follow-up network calls after an initial operation (e.g., `accounts:lookup` after `accounts:signUp`). These may also need mocking for a complete flow.

- **Handling SDK Errors in E2E:**
    - Firebase SDK functions (and potentially others) might throw `undefined` or non-standard errors in E2E environments, even if the underlying (mocked) network call returns a structured error body. The SDK's internal error processing can obscure the original mocked error.
    - **Actor Robustness:** XState actors calling such SDKs should have `catch` blocks that defensively convert `undefined` or non-`Error` objects into proper `Error` instances before re-throwing. This ensures the XState machine receives a usable `event.data`.
    - **Machine `onError`:** The machine's `onError` handler should then reliably extract `event.data.message` or provide a clear default error message if `event.data` is still problematic. This makes UI error assertions predictable.

- **Timing for UI Updates (React/XState):**
    - After actions triggering XState events and React re-renders, a brief `await page.waitForTimeout(250);` before assertions can help stabilize tests by giving the DOM time to update.
    - For conditionally rendered elements, assert existence/count (`toHaveCount(1)`), then text content (`toHaveText`), then visibility (`toBeVisible`) to better diagnose issues.
>>>>>>> REPLACE

Commit message:

Docs: Add Playwright E2E debugging, address registration test flakiness
This commit introduces detailed strategies for Playwright E2E debugging into the testing strategy document, covering timeout configurations and methods for tackling flaky tests, particularly those involving DOM update issues. It also includes modifications to the registration page E2E tests (`RegisterPage.e2e.ts`) and potentially related components (`Input.tsx`) in an effort to resolve persistent flakiness where error messages were not being reliably detected. The progress log (`memory-bank/progress.md`) has been updated to reflect the current status of these E2E test issues.

.clinerules/02-testing-strategy.md, after:

## Testing Workflow
- Run the full tests suite `pnpm test`
- Record all faling test files
- Fix tests in each file in isolation
- once all tests for a given file are passing, record any lessons learnt in the memory bank and commit
- once all tests are passing, run a build `pnpm build`
- fix any buuild issues
- once the project is building and all tests pass save any lessons learnt to the memory bank and commit

## Handling ESLint `no-unsafe-*` Rules in Test Files

When working with complex mocks, particularly for hooks or external modules (e.g., in Vitest), ESLint's type-aware `no-unsafe-assignment`, `no-unsafe-member-access`, and `no-unsafe-call` rules may sometimes flag code that is functionally correct and type-safe at runtime but difficult for static analysis to fully verify within the mock's context.

**Strategy:**

1.  **Prioritize Type Safety:** Always strive to make mocks as type-safe as possible. Use specific types for mock function parameters and return values.
2.  **Verify Functionality:** Ensure that unit tests for the component pass comprehensively, covering all relevant states and interactions related to the mocked functionality.
3.  **Confirm Build Success:** Ensure the project builds successfully (`pnpm build`), as the TypeScript compiler is the ultimate arbiter of type correctness.
4.  **Judicious Disabling:** If, after the above steps, persistent "unsafe" ESLint warnings remain in a test file due to the intricacies of the mock setup, it may be acceptable to use file-level ESLint disable comments for these specific rules (e.g., placed at the top of the `.test.tsx` file):
    ```typescript
    /* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-unsafe-assignment */
    /* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-unsafe-member-access */
    /* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-unsafe-call */
    ```
5.  **Scope:** This approach should be limited to test files and used only when the warnings are deemed to be false positives or overly cautious for a well-tested, functionally correct mock. The main application codebase should maintain stricter adherence to these ESLint rules.
6.  **Documentation:** If such disables are used, it's good practice to briefly comment why if the reason isn't immediately obvious from the mock's complexity.

## E2E Testing Considerations for Playwright, XState, and Async Operations

- **`webServer` Configuration (Playwright & Vite):**
    - Ensure `playwright.config.ts` `baseURL` and `webServer.url` exactly match the protocol (HTTP/HTTPS) and port your Vite dev server uses. Mismatches are a common cause of `webServer` timeouts.
    - To reliably use HTTP for E2E tests when Vite is configured for HTTPS:
        1. Conditionally disable HTTPS in `vite.config.ts` based on an environment variable (e.g., `E2E_TESTING=true`).
           ```typescript
           // vite.config.ts
           export default defineConfig(({ mode }) => {
             const isE2ETesting = process.env.E2E_TESTING === 'true';
             return {
               server: { https: isE2ETesting ? false : { /* your certs */ } },
             };
           });
           ```
        2. Set this variable in `playwright.config.ts`'s `webServer.command` using `cross-env`:
           ```typescript
           // playwright.config.ts
           webServer: {
             command: 'cross-env E2E_TESTING=true pnpm dev --port 5176 --host',
             url: 'http://localhost:5176', // Match protocol and port
             reuseExistingServer: false,
           },
           ```
    - Always run `pnpm exec playwright install` after Playwright updates or for initial setup.

- **Stabilizing Async UI Tests:**
    - Use `await page.goto('/')` in tests to respect `playwright.config.ts` `baseURL`.
    - Provide generous timeouts for assertions on elements that appear after async operations or XState initializations (e.g., `await expect(locator).toBeVisible({ timeout: 20000 })`).
    - **Testing Loading States:**
        - For brief XState "loading" or "submitting" states, consider E2E-specific artificial delays *within invoked actors* (before the main async call) to ensure the state is observable.
          ```typescript
          // myActor.ts
          if (process.env.E2E_TESTING === 'true') {
            await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 500)); // Delay
          }
          // ... main async logic ...
          ```
        - Use data attributes (e.g., `data-submitting="true"`) driven by loading states for more robust assertions than relying solely on visual cues or `toBeDisabled` if timing is critical.
          ```typescript
          // MyComponent.tsx
          // <form data-submitting={isLoading ? 'true' : 'false'} ...>

          // MyComponent.e2e.ts
          // await expect(formLocator).toHaveAttribute('data-submitting', 'true');
          ```

- **Debugging XState in E2E:**
    - Add `console.log` in XState machine actions, `onDone`, `onError` to trace execution.
    - Capture browser console logs in Playwright tests to view these machine logs:
      ```typescript
      // *.e2e.ts
      test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
        page.on('console', msg => {
          if (['log', 'error', 'warn'].includes(msg.type())) {
            console.log(`BROWSER CONSOLE (${msg.type().toUpperCase()}): ${msg.text()}`);
          }
        });
        // ...
      });
      ```
- **Firebase in E2E:**
    - Be aware that Firebase SDK calls might throw `undefined` errors or errors without a `.message` in E2E. Ensure machine error handling is robust.
    - Use unique emails (e.g., `testuser_${Date.now()}@example.com`) for registration tests to ensure idempotency.
- **General E2E Practices:**
    - Use correct selectors (e.g., `getByRole('link')` for `<a>` tags).
    - Use `test.describe.skip()` or `test.skip()` to temporarily exclude non-critical or flaky tests.
    - Add clear headings (`<h1>`, `<h2>`) to pages/views for stable locators in `beforeEach` hooks to confirm navigation.
    - **Playwright Reporter:** To prevent the HTML report from auto-opening and allow the test runner to exit cleanly, set `reporter: [['html', { open: 'never' }]]` in `playwright.config.ts`.

- **Mocking External Services (e.g., Firebase Auth):**
    - Use `page.route()` to intercept and mock network calls made by SDKs. This is crucial for deterministic testing of success and specific error paths.
    - Define `page.route()` mocks *inside* individual `test()` blocks to ensure they are correctly scoped.
    - When a mock is for a specific input (e.g., a particular email), the route handler should check the request payload and use `await route.continue()` for non-matching requests to avoid interfering with other tests.
    - Be aware that SDKs might make follow-up network calls after an initial operation (e.g., `accounts:lookup` after `accounts:signUp`). These may also need mocking for a complete flow.

- **Handling SDK Errors in E2E:**
    - Firebase SDK functions (and potentially others) might throw `undefined` or non-standard errors in E2E environments, even if the underlying (mocked) network call returns a structured error body. The SDK's internal error processing can obscure the original mocked error.
    - **Actor Robustness:** XState actors calling such SDKs should have `catch` blocks that defensively convert `undefined` or non-`Error` objects into proper `Error` instances before re-throwing. This ensures the XState machine receives a usable `event.data`.
    - **Machine `onError`:** The machine's `onError` handler should then reliably extract `event.data.message` or provide a clear default error message if `event.data` is still problematic. This makes UI error assertions predictable.

- **Timing for UI Updates (React/XState):**
    - After actions triggering XState events and React re-renders, a brief `await page.waitForTimeout(250);` before assertions can help stabilize tests by giving the DOM time to update.
    - For conditionally rendered elements, assert existence/count (`toHaveCount(1)`), then text content (`toHaveText`), then visibility (`toBeVisible`) to better diagnose issues.

- **Playwright Timeout Configuration:**
    - Playwright has multiple timeout settings. The `timeout` property in the main `defineConfig` (e.g., in `playwright.config.ts`) sets the default for individual tests and hooks like `beforeEach`.
    - The `webServer.timeout` specifically controls how long Playwright waits for the development server (e.g., Vite) to start.
    - Individual assertions like `await expect(locator).toBeVisible({ timeout: ... })` can also have their own specific timeouts.
    - It's crucial to identify which timeout is being exceeded when debugging. For instance, a `Test timeout of Xms exceeded while running "beforeEach" hook` often points to the main test `timeout`, not necessarily the `webServer.timeout`.

- **Debugging Flaky E2E Tests (DOM Update Issues):**
    - When E2E tests fail to find elements that are expected based on component logic and unit tests (especially after state changes):
        - **Confirm State Changes:** Use browser console logs within component hooks/effects to verify that the state controlling the UI element's visibility or content *is* actually updating as expected.
        - **Robust Locators:** Use `data-testid` attributes for stable locators.
        - **Playwright Waiting Mechanisms:**
            - `await expect(locator).toBeVisible({ timeout: ... })`: Standard way to wait for visibility.
            - `await expect(locator).toHaveCount(1, { timeout: ... })`: Ensures the element is uniquely present.
            - `await page.waitForFunction(() => { /* DOM condition */ }, { timeout: ... })`: More powerful for complex conditions; executes JavaScript in the browser to check the DOM state.
            - `await page.waitForTimeout(ms)`: Use sparingly as a last resort for brief, fixed delays if other waiting mechanisms fail, but it can make tests brittle.
        - **Inspect DOM State:**
            - `await page.screenshot({ path: 'debug.png', fullPage: true })`: Capture what the page looks like.
            - `console.log(await page.content())`: Log the full HTML content to see if the element is present.
            - `locator.count()` and `locator.allTextContents()`: Programmatically check what Playwright finds for a given locator.
        - **Interactive Debugging:** The most powerful tool is often `PWDEBUG=1 pnpm test:e2e` or `await page.pause()` in the test script. This allows interactive inspection of the DOM, styles, and element properties in the browser's DevTools at the point of failure.
    - **Rendering Discrepancies:** Be aware that components might render or update differently in a full browser (E2E) vs. a simulated DOM (unit tests). Styling (CSS-in-JS, global styles) can also behave differently and affect element visibility or interactability in ways not caught by unit tests.
    - **Consider Component Rendering Strategy:** If an element is conditionally rendered (e.g., `{error && <p>{error}</p>}`), and it's proving hard for Playwright to detect, consider rendering it always but controlling its visibility via CSS (e.g., `style={{ visibility: error ? 'visible' : 'hidden' }}`). This can sometimes make its presence in the DOM more stable for test runners, though it didn't resolve the specific issue in the FableForge registration form error messages.
